---
layout: post
title:  "Dope & Open"
date:   2016-03-14 06:05:00 -0600
---

In January, I had a meeting with a brilliant engineer that works for IBM by the name of Jeff. Jeff's has worked on some pretty well-known internal and external projects (like making contributions to Node.js). Truthfully, I don't know how long the guy has been an engineer, but I imagine somewhere along the lines of 10+ years.

So first of all, it is worth noting that anytime I'm having a conversation with one of these Senior Software Engineers, I have to admit to being a little star struck. (Pause). I mean, for someone like myself, who's upbringing was rooted in a mixed community, influenced by hip hop, and peppered with gang violence, it trips me the hell out to be sitting across the table from an engineer.

Honestly, sometimes it's hard for me wrap my head around it.

Over lunch at a local BBQ spot called Rudy's, Jeff asked me a ton of questions to sorta see where I was. He was doing research for another huge project of his.

_<span class="accent--cool">“</span>So, have you ever dived into any sorta Open Source project?...<span class="accent--cool">”</span>_  - he asked.

I thought long and hard - have I?... no I haven't... why haven't I?... this guy thinks I'm an idiot...

But I told him that no, I haven't. Jeff might've been the third person (in recent months) who have suggested that I participate in an open source. Truth is, I thought that OS projects were reserved for those with a ton of experience, like it was all *high-level braniac code shit*, and I always felt that I *needed more experience* before even attempting that stuff.

Still, after the inspiring conversation with Jeff, I decided to go out and find an OS project to contribute to. Not knowing where to look, I Google'd *'newest open source projects 2016'* - found some really dull projects that I had no interest in. Then, I headed over to <a class="link--base" href="https://github.com/explore" target="blank">GitHub's Explore</a> section, and found a ton of trending repos.

After browsing through several projects, I found <a class="link--base" href="https://github.com/FreeCodeCamp/FreeCodeCamp" target="blank">Free Code Camp</a>. I checked their Issues tab to see what sorta issues were on the backlog, read through them, and thought to myself - *hey, I miiight be able to fix some of these!* So, after a couple of days of wrestling with their contribution docs and getting my local environment set up, I was finally ready to start tackling some issues.

In my first month of contributing to FCC, here's what I've learned:

- one should take at least a day or two to read through Contribution docs - they're there for a reason (the last thing you want to do is look like a dumb ass and make a PR from the wrong place, fixing the wrong thing, etc) 
- this is pure voluntary work - I liken it to sacrificing a Saturday to do a beach clean up
- you will feel a rush after getting your first PR merged! (I know I did)
- contributing to OS projects (especially those with a 'good' cause) will satisfy the good samaritan in you
- join its community! Oftentimes they'll have a Slack team, in this case a Gitter channel, where you can talk to other contributors or even moderators
- it's all about learning and sharing knowledge
 

### Then what?

Shortly after my first month of helping out with FCC, I began helping out a friend with another OS project called Open Austin. Open Austin is the local civic-hacking brigade that leverages the government's Open Data initiative, and they use that data to create projects that help city workers, people, and heck even animals probably. So far, I've only helped with the <a class="link--base" href="http://open-austin.org" target="blank">Open Austin's website</a>, but I'm excited to see if there are any other opportunities down the road.
